Students registered through Disability Services for BIOL 1202 LIVE through Introductory Biology

Hi All,

If you have an approved accommodation through the Office of Disability Services (ODS), you will need to schedule and take your exams through their office (and NOT the LSU Testing Center).  This is the only way that I can guarantee you will receive any accommodation(s) that you are approved for.

Please make sure you are familiar with the policies and procedures for the Office of Disability Services, specifically for requesting to take an exam through their office.  Typically, ODS requires at least a 3 business day advance notice to schedule and take an exam through their office.  If you wait until the last minute to try and schedule your exam through Disability Services and they can not fit you in, you will need to take your exam at the LSU Testing Center without your accommodation.  This policy is strictly enforced and you must take your exam within the announced EXAM WINDOW.

The information below is just a summary of information.  You should check out the LSU Disability Services website for more complete and up-to-date policies.  The website is listed below:

http://students.lsu.edu/disability

If you are formally registered through Disability Services, they should provide you with a formal document on their LSU letterhead explaining your general circumstances.  Please send me a copy of that document through email as soon as possible.  Depending on your circumstances, you may be entitled to:

1.  Extended time on assignments and exams
2.  Class notes (sent by a note taken who I have selected)
3.  Taking your exams in a distraction reduced environment
4.  Tape recorded lectures, use of a recorder
5.  Alternate exam testing options
6.  Consideration for spelling
7.  Consideration for absences
8.  Use of a reader for the pretest and/or exam
9.  Use of a scribe

This list is not a comprehensive one and there may be something else that you are entitled to that I am unaware of.  The most important point is that you communicate with me what you need and I will do my best to accomodate you as best I can under the LSU guidelines.

If this is your first time using Disability Services, please make sure that you are fully aware of their policies, especially when it comes to scheduling  exams.  You must complete and submit the Disability Examination Request form (myLSU login required) at least three (3) business days prior to the exam. Your instructor must submit the completed request via email confirmation to Disability Services.  Examination Request Forms received less than three business days prior to the examination will not be accepted.

When you are requesting an exam, you MUST INDICATE WHICH ASSESSMENT you are requesting.  In the space for "COURSE", you would fill in "BIOL 1202, EXAM X".  If you do not fill in that information, I have no way of knowing WHICH assessment you are requesting and can not confirm your reservation.  As a result, Disability Service will not have your exam ready for you to take.   Please see the current information Disability Services has posted on their website.

Thanks,
Dr. Adam Hrincevich