Scheduling a pretest* or test in the CBT Testing Center

*NOTE: A pretest may not be offered this semester due to space limitations in the Testing Center.  Instead, you can generate a PLETHORA of review materials using Mastering Biology (as detailed on MOODLE in our course)

1. You MUST take the exam during the time posted.  Failure to do so will result in a zero on the exam, UNLESS you have made prior arrangements with me, that I also confirmed through email.  There are no exceptions to this policy.  Do NOT miss your exam session.
2. EXAM will be taken through the LSU Testing Center (which is on campus) and you must schedule your exam beforehand using the link in MOODLE called "Schedule Testing Center Exam".  All exams must be scheduled using this link in MOODLE before you are able to take the exam at the LSU Testing Center.  You can NOT simply walk into the LSU Testing Center without a confirmed reservation, they will turn you away and you will end up with a zero (0%) for the exam.
3. Missed exams without a University approved reason will result in a zero (0%), no exceptions.  Do NOT miss your exam session.  If you do miss your session, you should immediately try to re-schedule your exam using the link below.  If there are no sessions available in the exam window, you need to keep checking or you risk getting a zero (0%) on the exam.
4. If you miss your exam session, you will not be able to reschedule until AFTER midnight that day once the system resets.  Once it resets, you need to go in an secure a NEW reservation.  If you miss the exam on the last day it is given, you will not be able to reschedule.  In that case, you need to GO to the Testing Center and see if they will allow you to take the exam on a "stand by basis".  In most cases they will be able to accommodate you if they have room.
5. If you miss your exam and will not be able to reschedule it in the regular exam window, you must fill out the MISSED EXAM FORM (found on MOODLE) and send it to me via email within 24 hours of missing the exam.  You must also attach supporting documentation for your case.  For example, if you are "sick", your doctors excuse must indicate that you are physically unable to take the exam in the regular window and/or are excused from school due to your sickness in the regular window that the exam is offered.  Without this supporting documentation, you are not entitled to a makeup exam.  Again, it is to your advantage to take the exam in the regular window if you are able to , even if you have a tummy ache or other non life-threatening/non-communicable malady.
6. Make-up exams (if approved) may be in a different format including essay, short answer, concept mapping, etc.  If you are able to take your exam it is always in your best interest to do so in the regular exam window.
7. If have an accommodation for extra time through ODS (typically 1.5x or 2x time), you need to schedule your exam to be taken through Disability Services at their facilities in order to receive this extended time accommodation.  They will be able to remotely access the exam and administer it at their facilities.
8. The exam is ~75-90 questions in length, randomized for each student, covers CH 22-25, and you have a maximum of 120 minutes.


