ONLINE vs. LIVE courses.  What is the difference?

Hi,

Currently, I usually teach a section(s) of BIOL 1001 online and also a live,
face-to-face section.  Both versions are essentially the same, the only difference is
that the online version does not have any "live" lectures and all of my Powerpoints/lectures
are posted to MOODLE already filled in. You still have Mastering Biology assignments in
both versions, both use Computer Based Testing, and both have 4 exams (the 4th exam is
a non-cumulative final).  The order that the chapters are covered is also slightly different,
so registering for the online version, but sitting in on the live lecture is really not feasible.

The questions you need to ask yourself in determining which version of the course is best for
you would be:

1. Am I self-driven?

2. Am I super organized?  Organization is the key to success and students that have the
ability to keep their materials organized, have dates circled on their calendars for due
dates and plan ahead are the ones that do the best in this course.

3. Can I organize my schedule so that I dedicate time each week to work on BIOL 1001 materials?

4. Am I computer/tech savy? (meaning you need to check your email at least once a day for
messages from me and you should also be fluent in using MOODLE and Mastering Biology, etc.)

5.  Many people incorrectly assume that an online course will be a lot easier than a live
version.  It really depends on how organized you are and what your Biology background/foundation
is and your semester standing.  I do NOT recommend students taking an online course if this
is your first semester at LSU.  There is an adjustment period when entering into the University
setting and once you know how college courses run, then I think an online course would be an
option.

The online version is great if you can say "yes" to those above questions. You work more so on
your pace and can fit the class into ANY schedule. If, on the other hand, if you LIKE having a
live lecture or you get more out of a professor lecturing live and being able to ask questions
on the fly, then I would suggest the live/face-to-face version of BIOL 1001. Both versions have
advantages, it just depends on how YOU learn best and what your strong points are as a student.

Hope that helps!

Thank you,
Adam