Why should I take the pretest*? How do I prepare for the Exam?

*NOTE: A pretest may not be offered this semester due to space limitations in the Testing Center.  Instead, you can 
generate a PLETHORA of review materials using Mastering Biology (as detailed on MOODLE in our course)

The pretest is basically a sneak peek at the exam. It comes from the same set of questions
and I HIGHLY recommend that you take it. It does NOT count towards your grade in BIOL 1001,
but it does give you a baseline of how well you understand the material.  So, if you get a
10% or 100% on the pretest, it has no bearing on your average in BIOL 1001.

The best way to utilize the pretest is to take it and have one day in between before taking your exam.  When you are
done with the pretest, it will show you which questions you got wrong.  It will NOT, however, allow you to print out 
or make a copy of these missed questions. This is a security measure since the pretest and exam are created from the
same pool of questions.  You may end up having some or none of the pretest questions on your exam, it is a completely
randomized process when you sit to take your exam.  Theoretically, 10 students could all sit at the same time to take
the exam and there would be no repetition of questions between any of these 10 students.  That is how large the pool
of questions is for each chapter.  So, students that take the exam on the first time slot of the first day are at no 
disadvantage or disadvantage as compared to students who take their exam on the last time slot of the last day.

Historically, students who have taken their exams earlier on in the testing window have done better and I think it
is because these students have prepared well for the exam and want to get it put of the way early on as compared to
students who wait until the last second to take their exams and procrastinate.

If you have already taken the pretest, you probably noticed that there were quite a few "picture/figure" based questions
on it. Roughly ½ of the overall points come from "picture/figure" based questions. I can show you one picture and ask
several questions about that picture.

So...you need to focus your studies on three areas in preparation for the exam.

1. MY POWERPOINT NOTES: They summarize the most important points in the chapters in a condensed format.

2. THE REVIEW PICTURE FILE: These are all of the pictures/figures that I would pull from in generating a
picture/figure based question. If you understand and can explain the pictures in this file, you already have ½ of the
overall points under your belt.

3.  ANY REVIEW QUESTIONS: Typically, I will post a set of review questions WITHOUT the answers embedded. To use this
file as it is intended, you should attempt to answer these questions as if they were the real exam. Usually a day or
so after I post the review question set, I will then post an ANSWER KEY so that you can check your answers to see how
well you did. You can also create your OWN review question sets using both Mastering Biology or the old 7th edition
website. See the first few slides of the REVIEW PICTURE file for instructions on how to create these
review question sets.

Thanks,
Adam